adding management api docs with some examples (#5925)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-cms/reference/custom-swagger-api.md

---
description: Example of a Custom API with Authorization and Swagger
---

# Custom API with Authorization and Swagger

> This article covers how to create a Custom API controller protected by the backoffice authorization policy. It also shows how to enable authorization UI in Swagger docs.

Author: ```suggestion
This article covers how to create a Custom API controller protected by the backoffice authorization policies. It also shows how to enable authorization UI in Swagger docs.
```

Reviewer: 👍

{% hint style="info" %}

Before  proceeding, make sure to read the [Management API](./management-api/README.md) article. It provides information about the Swagger documentation and Authorization used in this article.

{% endhint %}

> This example can be a starting point for creating a secure custom API in the Swagger documentation or using the API Controller. You can find other examples in the [API versioning and OpenAPI](./api-versioning-and-openapi.md) article.

Reviewer: 👍

> 1. Create a new `.cs` file called `MyBackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` at the root of the project in an Umbraco v14+ installation.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create a new `.cs` file called `MyBackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` in your Umbraco v14 project.
```

Reviewer: Yeah that makes sense 😄

2. Add the following code so that the new API shows in the Swagger documentation and Swagger UI:

{% code title="MyBackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter.cs" lineNumbers="true" %}

```csharp

> using Asp.Versioning;
> using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization;
> using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
> using Microsoft.Extensions.Options;
> using Microsoft.OpenApi.Models;
> using Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerGen;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Api.Common.Attributes;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Api.Common.Filters;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Api.Management.OpenApi;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Core;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Composing;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.Membership;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Security;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Authorization;

Author: ```suggestion
using Microsoft.Extensions.Options;
using Microsoft.OpenApi.Models;
using Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerGen;
using Umbraco.Cms.Api.Management.OpenApi;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Composing;
```

public class MyConfigureSwaggerGenOptions : IConfigureOptions<SwaggerGenOptions>
{
    public void Configure(SwaggerGenOptions options)
    {
        options.SwaggerDoc("my-api-v1", new OpenApiInfo { Title = "My API v1", Version = "1.0" });
        options.OperationFilter<MyBackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter>();
    }
}

public class MyComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
        => builder.Services.ConfigureOptions<MyConfigureSwaggerGenOptions>();
}

```

{% endcode %}

> - The `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` enables backoffice authentication for Swagger UI.
> - `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilterBase` is an abstract base class that can be reused for custom APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
- Our filter inherits from `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilterBase`. This marks our API as needing authorization and adds basic authentication and authorization metadata to all endpoints in our new API.
- `MyConfigureSwaggerGenOptions` configures our API swagger docs with our filter applied.
- `MyComposer ` makes sure the swagger generator knows about our API docs configuration at runtime.
```

Reviewer: Careful - when reading this, one might think that the filter enables auth for the API endpoints... when in fact it just enabled auth in Swagger for the API.

Maybe something like this:

Our filter inherits from `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilterBase`. This marks our API as supporting authorization via Swagger.

Author: Applied, thank you for your suggestion 🙌

        => builder.Services.ConfigureOptions<MyConfigureSwaggerGenOptions>();
}

```

{% endcode %}

- The `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` enables backoffice authentication for Swagger UI.
- `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilterBase` is an abstract base class that can be reused for custom APIs.

3. Add the ApiController to setup the logic behind the endpoint:

{% code title="MyBackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter.cs" lineNumbers="true" %}

```csharp

> {
> ...
> 
> //Creating the Controller

Author: ```suggestion

using Umbraco.Cms.Api.Common.Attributes;
using Umbraco.Cms.Api.Common.Filters;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.Membership;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Security;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Authorization;
using Asp.Versioning;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
...

//Creating the Controller
```

---
description: Example of a Custom API with Authorization and Swagger
---

# Custom API with Authorization and Swagger

This article covers how to create a Custom API controller protected by the backoffice authorization policy. It also shows how to enable authorization UI in Swagger docs.

> This example can be a starting point for creating a secure custom API in the Swagger documentation or using the API Controller. You can find other examples in the [API versioning and OpenAPI](./api-versioning-and-openapi.md) article.
> 
> {% hint style="info" %}
> 
> Before  proceeding, make sure to read the [Management API](./management-api/README.md) article. It provides information about the Swagger documentation and Authorization used in this article.
> 
> {% endhint %}
> 

Author: ```suggestion

{% hint style="info" %}

Before  proceeding, make sure to read the [Management API](./management-api/README.md) article. It provides information about the Swagger documentation and Authorization used in this article.

{% endhint %}

This example can be a starting point for creating a secure custom API in the Swagger documentation or using the API Controller. You can find other examples in the [API versioning and OpenAPI](./api-versioning-and-openapi.md) article.

```

    }
}

public class MyComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
        => builder.Services.ConfigureOptions<MyConfigureSwaggerGenOptions>();
}

//Creating the Controller
[ApiController]
[ApiVersion("1.0")] 
[MapToApi("my-api-v1")] 
[Authorize(Policy = AuthorizationPolicies.BackOfficeAccess)] 
[JsonOptionsName(Constants.JsonOptionsNames.BackOffice)]
[Route("api/v{version:apiVersion}/my")]
public class MyApiController : Controller
{
    private readonly IBackOfficeSecurityAccessor _backOfficeSecurityAccessor;

    public MyApiController(IBackOfficeSecurityAccessor backOfficeSecurityAccessor)
        => _backOfficeSecurityAccessor = backOfficeSecurityAccessor;

    [HttpGet("say-hello")]
    [MapToApiVersion("1.0")]
    [ProducesResponseType(typeof(string), StatusCodes.Status200OK)]
    public IActionResult SayHello()
    {
        IUser currentUser = _backOfficeSecurityAccessor.BackOfficeSecurity?.CurrentUser
                            ?? throw new InvalidOperationException("No backoffice user found");
        return Ok($"Hello, {currentUser.Name}");
    }
}
}
```
{% endcode %}

> - The `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` enables back-office authentication for Swagger UI.

Author: You can see it in code as BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilterBase where base is part of the main method BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter

> - The `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` enables back-office authentication for Swagger UI.

Author: ```suggestion
- The `BackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter` enables backoffice authentication for Swagger UI.
```

        options.OperationFilter<MyBackOfficeSecurityRequirementsOperationFilter>();
    }
}

public class MyComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
        => builder.Services.ConfigureOptions<MyConfigureSwaggerGenOptions>();
}

//Creating the Controller
[ApiController]
[ApiVersion("1.0")] 
[MapToApi("my-api-v1")] 
[Authorize(Policy = AuthorizationPolicies.BackOfficeAccess)] 
[JsonOptionsName(Constants.JsonOptionsNames.BackOffice)]
[Route("api/v{version:apiVersion}/my")]
public class MyApiController : Controller
{
    private readonly IBackOfficeSecurityAccessor _backOfficeSecurityAccessor;

    public MyApiController(IBackOfficeSecurityAccessor backOfficeSecurityAccessor)
        => _backOfficeSecurityAccessor = backOfficeSecurityAccessor;

    [HttpGet("say-hello")]
    [MapToApiVersion("1.0")]
    [ProducesResponseType(typeof(string), StatusCodes.Status200OK)]
    public IActionResult SayHello()
    {
        IUser currentUser = _backOfficeSecurityAccessor.BackOfficeSecurity?.CurrentUser
                            ?? throw new InvalidOperationException("No backoffice user found");
        return Ok($"Hello, {currentUser.Name}");
    }

> }

Reviewer: Seems to me this code is duplicated in step 3 below - perhaps it was intended to be omitted from the this step (step 2)?

Author: ah good point!

> }

Reviewer: I think this is an excess closing `}` - either that, or the entire code sample is formatted weirdly.
